# Intro to raw React APIs

## ðŸ“ Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/02.md`

## Background

React is the most widely used frontend framework in the world and it's using the
same APIs that you're using when it creates DOM nodes.

> In fact,
> [here's where that happens in the React source code](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/48907797294340b6d5d8fecfbcf97edf0691888d/packages/react-dom/src/client/ReactDOMComponent.js#L416)
> at the time of this writing.

React abstracts away the imperative browser API from you to give you a much more
declarative API to work with.

> Learn more about the difference between those two concepts here:
> [Imperative vs Declarative Programming](https://tylermcginnis.com/imperative-vs-declarative-programming/)

One important thing to know about React is that it supports multiple platforms
(for example, native and web). Each of these platforms has its own code
necessary for interacting with that platform, and then there's shared code
between the platforms.

With that in mind, you need two JavaScript files to write React applications for
the web:

- React: responsible for creating React elements (kinda like
  `document.createElement()`)
- ReactDOM: responsible for rendering React elements to the DOM (kinda like
  `rootElement.append()`)

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/02.html)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.html)

Let's convert this to use React! But don't worry, we won't be doing any JSX just
yet... You're going to use raw React APIs here.

In modern applications you'll get React and React DOM files from a "package
registry" like [npm](https://npmjs.com) ([react](https://npm.im/react) and
[react-dom](https://npm.im/react-dom)). But for these first exercises, we'll use
the script files which are available on [unpkg.com](https://unpkg.com) and
regular script tags so you don't have to bother installing them. So in the
exercise you'll be required to add script tags for these files.

Once you include the script tags, you'll have two new global variables to use:
`React` and `ReactDOM`.

Here's a simple example of the API:

```javascript
const elementProps = {id: 'element-id', children: 'Hello world!'}
const elementType = 'h1'
const reactElement = React.createElement(elementType, elementProps)
ReactDOM.render(reactElement, rootElement)
```

Alright! Let's do this!

## Extra Credit

### 1. ðŸ’¯ nesting elements

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.extra-1.html)

See if you can figure out how to write the JavaScript + React code to generate
this DOM output:

```html
<body>
  <div id="root">
    <div class="container">
      <span>Hello</span>
      <span>World</span>
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
```

## ðŸ¦‰ Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=02%3A%20Intro%20to%20raw%20React%20APIs&em=setmaxo%40gmail.com).

## What I've learned

### How to use React.createElement

- `type` is the first parameter, it can be a tag name such as `div` or `p`, or a
  React component (class or function)
- the props are defined as an object and the content of the element is not
  `textContext` but `children`
- `className` still being the name for the class prop

- If I can do something using JSX then I can do it using the raw React API since
  `<Text content="Hello World"/>` ends up being
  `React.createElement(Text, {content: 'Hello World'}, null)`. At the same time,
  the implementation for the `Text` component could be as follows:

  ```
  const Text = (content: string) => {
    return React.createElement('span', {children: content}, null)
  }

  export default Text
  ```

### Nesting elements

- For this excercise, I had to include two `span` as children of the `div`.
  Those went into an array in the `children` parameter of `React.createElement`
  when creating the `div` element.

- As I'm introducing a collection of children, they need to have a `key` prop
- A curiosity... The children prop can be used in the second parameter of
  `createElement` in the third parameter as we end up doing in this excercise.
  Same result for both approaches

### Others

- unpkg allows me to include npm packages in my page without installing or
  building
- Differences between declarative and imperative approach.
  - Declarative: table for two
  - Imperative: all steps the host knows in order to sit two new clients in a
    table with enough room
  - React bring us a declarative API where I just tell 'give me a div element
    and include these two spans into it' instead of specifing every single step
    required so the UI can show what I need
- Until this point, we can't really see the benefit of using react instead of
  plain JS. Nonetheless, React brings us more posibilities than just create
  elements and that will be discussed in further excercises
- In the unpkg URL I can see `umd` which means Universal Module Definition. This
  allows us to use built in variables such as React or ReactDOM. Thanks unpkg!
- In this example, React is responsable of creating elements while ReactDOM has
  the responsability of showing them in the DOM and then the browser.
