# Using JSX

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/03.md`

## Background

JSX is more intuitive than the raw React API and is easier to understand when
reading the code. It's fairly simple HTML-like syntactic sugar on top of the raw
React APIs:

```jsx
const ui = <h1 id="greeting">Hey there</h1>

// ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ compiles to ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

const ui = React.createElement('h1', {id: 'greeting', children: 'Hey there'})
```

Because JSX is not actually JavaScript, you have to convert it using something
called a code compiler. [Babel](https://babeljs.io) is one such tool.

🦉 Pro tip: If you'd like to see how JSX gets compiled to JavaScript,
[check out the online babel REPL here](https://babeljs.io/repl#?builtIns=App&code_lz=MYewdgzgLgBArgSxgXhgHgCYIG4D40QAOAhmLgBICmANtSGgPRGm7rNkDqIATtRo-3wMseAFBA&presets=react&prettier=true).

If you can train your brain to look at JSX and see the compiled version of that
code, you'll be MUCH more effective at reading and using it! I strongly
recommend you give this some intentional practice.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/03.html)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.html)

Normally you'll compile all of your code at build-time before you ship your
application to the browser, but because Babel is written in JavaScript we can
actually run it _in_ the browser to compile our code on the fly and that's what
we'll do in this exercise.

So we'll include a script tag for Babel, then we'll update our own script tag to
tell Babel to compile it for us on the fly. When you're done, you should notice
the compiled version of the code appears in the `<head>` of the DOM (which you
can inspect using DevTools).

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 interpolate className and children

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-1.html)

"Interpolation" is defined as "the insertion of something of a different nature
into something else."

Let's take template literals for example:

```javascript
const greeting = 'Sup'
const subject = 'World'
const message = `${greeting} ${subject}`
```

See if you can figure out how to extract the `className` (`"container"`) and
`children` (`"Hello World"`) to variables and interpolate them in the JSX.

```jsx
const className = 'container'
const children = 'Hello World'
const element = <div className="hmmm">how do I make this work?</div>
```

📜 The react docs for JSX are pretty good:
https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html

Here are a few sections of particular interest for this extra credit:

- https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#embedding-expressions-in-jsx
- https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#specifying-attributes-with-jsx

### 2. 💯 spread props

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-2.html)

What if I have an object of props that I want applied to the `div` like this:

```jsx
const children = 'Hello World'
const className = 'container'
const props = {children, className}
const element = <div /> // how do I apply props to this div?
```

If we were doing raw React APIs it would be:

```jsx
const element = React.createElement('div', props)
```

Or, it could be written like this:

```jsx
const element = React.createElement('div', {...props})
```

See if you can figure out how to make that work with JSX.

📜 https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html#spread-attributes

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=03%3A%20Using%20JSX&em=setmaxo%40gmail.com).

## What I've learned

# Played around with the Babel REPL

- Was good to see how a unordered list of items gets created only using
  react.createElement. I'm not too creative, I will try with other examples
  later on
- I got Babel from unpkg, then I can change the type attribute of the script tag
  to compile the code into it so the browser can run it. This means, JSX code
  compiled by Babel to React.createElement type
  - Remember babel is a layer between the code and the browser

# Reading about JSX in the introductory documentation

- JSX Prevents Injection Attacks escaping values embeded into it (prevents XSS)

- How to have JS being executed into a string (string formating using ``)

- JS variables are used as props values into React.createElement calls
  (`className: myVar`) It can also be a function
  (`className: myVar.toUpperCase()`) as the function returns a value and that
  value will be the value of that prop. For this cases, it's like Babel just
  removing the {} around the JS expresion and leave it like that to then be
  executed by the browser as a plain JS.

- Not include statements into {}, just expresions. Because of the way Babel
  compilation works, the contents of an interpolation must be JavaScript
  expressions because they're essentially the right hand of an object assignment
  or used as an argument to a function call.

- Remember the dynamic HTML handling I use to do in ASP.NET, rendering between
  different things based on the value in a variable that came from the DB. That
  was great, I mean, not having to create the HTML in the server and send it to
  the frontend. React allows me to do that soo easily using `interpolation`

- It feels really good having this notation in JSX (`<p />`), we don't have that
  in HTML

- I liked this example

```ui = <div>{error ? <span>{error}</span> : <span>good to go</span>}</div> ui =

React.createElement( 'div', null, error ? React.createElement('span', null,
error) : React.createElement('span', null, 'good to go'), )
```

# How to spread an object with props.

- I assigned to the variables the same name of the property so I can reduce even
  more the code. Looks cleaner.
- This notation `<MyComponents.DatePicker />` means that I'm using the component
  `DatePicker` from the module `MyComponents` which must have multiple
  components exported

- I think there are some rules to write components, and one of them is
  user-defined components have to be capitalized because JSX compiles to
  React.createElement(MyComponent), while using built in components compiles to
  React.createElement('div')

- `{...props}` = `{className: 'container', children: 'Hello World'}`

- Order matters, for example: `{className='default', ...props}` =
  `{className: 'container', children: 'Hello World'}` because order matters
  here.
