# Styling

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/05.md`

## Background

There are two primary ways to style react components

1. Inline styles with the `style` prop
2. Regular CSS with the `className` prop

**About the `style` prop:**

- In HTML you'd pass a string of CSS:

```html
<div style="margin-top: 20px; background-color: blue;"></div>
```

- In React, you'll pass an object of CSS:

```jsx
<div style={{marginTop: 20, backgroundColor: 'blue'}} />
```

Note that in react the `{{` and `}}` is actually a combination of a JSX
expression and an object expression. The same example above could be written
like so:

```jsx
const myStyles = {marginTop: 20, backgroundColor: 'blue'}
<div style={myStyles} />
```

Note also that the property names are `camelCased` rather than `kebab-cased`.
This matches the `style` property of DOM nodes (which is a
[`CSSStyleDeclaration`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSStyleDeclaration)
object).

**About the `className` prop:**

As we discussed earlier, in HTML, you apply a class name to an element with the
`class` attribute. In JSX, you use the `className` prop.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/05.js)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/05.js)

In this exercise we'll use both methods for styling react components.

We have the following css on the page:

```css
.box {
  border: 1px solid #333;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  text-align: center;
}
.box--large {
  width: 270px;
  height: 270px;
}
.box--medium {
  width: 180px;
  height: 180px;
}
.box--small {
  width: 90px;
  height: 90px;
}
```

Your job is to apply the right className and style props to the divs so the
styles applied match the text content.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 Create a custom component

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/05.extra-1.js)

Try to make a custom `<Box />` component that renders a div, accepts all the
props and merges the given `style` and `className` props with the shared values.

I should be able to use it like so:

```jsx
<Box className="box--small" style={{backgroundColor: 'lightblue'}}>
  small lightblue box
</Box>
```

The `box` className and `fontStyle: 'italic'` style should be applied in
addition to the values that come from props.

### 2. 💯 accept a size prop to encapsulate styling

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/05.extra-2.js)

It's great that we're composing the `className`s and `style`s properly, but
wouldn't it be better if the users of our components didn't have to worry about
which class name to apply for a given effect? Or that a class name is involved
at all? I think it would be better if users of our component had a `size` prop
and our component took care of making the box that size.

In this extra credit, try to make this API work:

```jsx
<Box size="small" style={{backgroundColor: 'lightblue'}}>
  small lightblue box
</Box>
```

## Attribution

[Matt Zabriskie](https://twitter.com/mzabriskie) developed this example
originally for
[a workshop we gave together.](https://github.com/mzabriskie/react-workshop)

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=05%3A%20Styling&em=setmaxo%40gmail.com).

## My Notes

# Styling

- In HTML we pass a `string` of CSS and in React we pass an `object` of CSS.
  Imagin this JSX: `<div style={marginTop: 10}>Hi</div>` Babel would compile
  this to be `React.createElement('div', {style: {marginTop: 10}}, "Hi")`

  If we pass a string as we do in HTML then:
  `React.createElement('div', {style: "margin-top: 20px;"}, "Hi")`

  Why I can't pass a string as a `style` prop in React? At this point, I don't
  have an answer but clearly both versions are different.

  If I note that the property names are different between HTML and JSX, I will
  also notice that in JSX we use camelCased names while kebab-cased in HTML.
  These are two ways of using the `CSSStyleDeclaration` object, `style` property
  of DOM.

- The `className` property accepts `string` as type and we will use it when a
  class is already defined somewhere else. So we can add the name in this prop
  and apply the stlyes defined.

- Then we can define in-line styles using the `style` prop which receives an
  object this time. This stlyes can also be defined somewhere else, and need to
  be into scope to be effective.

# Components

- I can see more easily now the translation from an HTML tag with properties all
  the way to a function component. Its properties is my prop object. Its content
  will be the children of my component.

- Remember:
  - property overwrite between objects (style)
    - but much clearer separate the style prop from the general collection
    - although, if the user of the component enters a `backgroundColor` property
      in the `style` prop, it will be relevant where to locate the spreaded
      style prop. If the defaults are on the left, the could be override by the
      user. That gives to the user more flexibility. However when located on the
      right side, those defaults will be overwriting styles entered by the user,
      that's forcing a behave and giving to the user less options (low
      reusability).
  - object spreading
  - templating strings
  - children is included into props
